if you're recording then - okay sorry
I'm Beverly Hills no wait okay this is
the All Hands call for November 27 2017
and first on the agenda it looks like we
have benchmark J s ipfs from David wait
okay I just see my video really
interesting it's a little bit choppy
yeah
it should not be here all right sorry no
more distractions so benchmark so one of
our computers made a really nice website
that basically lets users check out
speed up my PMS if you go to benchmark -
Jess that IP festered are you it got
published today so you are seeing the
latest version but still not the latest
version with the next just appearance
which is faster you will find a website
and me I can just like walk you through
with a screen sure makes it easier to
committed where is Mike oh yes actually
Firefox and abuse chrome anymore so yeah
well I was waiting for Firefox to catch
up so yeah you get a really nice web
page right now it has like three
benchmarks you can start and he tells
you it's using these you're 26 and then
once a note starts you'll see some peers
connecting my peers connected and now
you can run like one of these benchmarks
they have different files right now it's
like static files that yeah it's a face
it gives you a place I someone that I
don't see a face okay oh he's here yeah
you and I do to walk us through to the
speech my platform
go ahead it's uh I heard you talking
there you're doing very well thank you
yeah okay so I was just like wrap it up
and then you add more of your ideas and
what you want to do this so as I was
saying you guys like really these guys
like way of telling like how many blocks
were there on the file like how much
time did it take to get each work and
you get like this read speed so in a
sense like this is kind of like a
platform for more people to add more
benchmarks of streaming files or just
like different kind of network
situations and then compare it we like
real just get HTTP such or even see it
through time as it evolves and I've seen
just at the offense cat master
I was undecisive if the domain should be
like ecfs fast yet or benchmark just
that I've episode i/o but we went with
this one because the sacrifical is
already there it was simpler to set up
yeah we might get Astraeus - two points
this one alone and so yeah this period
is much for the contribution by the way
sorry thank you so much for the
contribution thank you guys for inviting
and I'm part of IP face I can contribute
in ipfs anyway I hope yeah I hope the
benchmarks would be will become more
useful from from you guys that you know
ipfs much better and you it was this
example was just get a stream
benchmarking performance monitoring but
I think we can improve it to become
really useful you know set of tools for
keeping track of what's going on in
terms of speed and what's going on the
background yeah so I guess like you are
jumping into the next point in the
agenda if I recall correctly which is
like more benchmarks so we create the
issue here just like again I guess it
was created today we kind of like
publish this today although this was not
then like some weeks ago the the core of
the work and so the issue is about like
getting feedback on like what will
people want to see on this website is it
like having more files to be added is
there like any kind of visualization
that would help everyone to understand
what is going on I wonder every minds
just getting like a big square like I
think transmission does this which like
you have a big square with all the tiny
box and I guess as a blogs are coming
are they are being pipes to your nodes
you see the blocks appearing on this big
square and finally your the whole piece
so we can do more visualizations we can
add more tests we can compare it we can
benchmark it against HTTP and and see
the differences right because like when
it's like a small file poor HTTP is
going to be faster because that small
file comes from single endpoint you
don't have to do any crypto magic just
like downloaded but then we got like a
large file like a two gig file I thief s
is certainly going to be faster and and
having those comparisons going to be
useful and that's it I think I can stop
my screen shirt here Hey any questions
ideas anything stay here
Jorge also something else well well yeah
and we can I don't know much about you
know what's going going
with ipfs connections with fears you
know there is picture that you mentioned
there was really good to keep track of
what chunks are you getting from home
it's it's a really good feature I think
also and also we can you know we can
start with some basic stuff that basic
matrix that for those who use ipfs would
be really useful and we can start
writing them down and the implementing
and yeah I think in the process many
things will come up and yeah make it
more useful - I wasn't expecting to be
such a so much useful in beginning I
just created it just to show the speech
but oh yeah I'm in the discussion in the
issue I mentioned also Victor's some of
the some of Victor's comments on some
ideas he had about running multiple
tests for each get - you know - key to
keep the medians have a much better
understanding with multiple tests and
the functionality of pinning and being
files a which I think it's a good idea
where you can also have you know a list
of your files locally and then you know
try to play around and see how the speed
goes and also um yeah how many sorry for
my english guys I think I'm torturing
you but
we can also have a better understanding
of this browser class which say it's a
mystery because you know III was trying
to debug it and trying to you know see
what's going on but I could never I was
never sure of what's going on in the
background so yeah I don't know maybe if
we run tests multiple times this this
issue over this bug might come up more
often and we better understand I don't
know I haven't a single process I
haven't seen the relative issues if it's
totally solved but I have experience
recently also some browser cache misses
so we can we can get we can investigate
more detail I guess and also generally
we can we can make it like look like
more it dashboard rate and then add more
and more you know benchmarks for getting
files benchmarks for boots for adding
files and this kind of approach any
ideas are welcome and also from you you
know creating a better benchmark from it
could be really useful only from those
who really use it you know and I want to
have the numbers that have a meaning
make sense and so that way if we write
down the specifications and it's it's
more targeted and I think it would be
more useful okay I don't want to hijack
the conversation it's good yeah let's
continue
on the issue there's a lot of ideas and
like things that we can you can use a
benchmark so different problems we can
use the benchmark just like to see
improvements in performance and memory
usage and yes I really agree with the
dashboard because if we have a dashboard
it makes those tests very repeatable and
very very fast and like it empowers
everyone to actually participate on that
debugging and figuring things out with
this exactly
alright if we're ready to go on to the
next agenda item it looks like we have
live period appear transport from David
all right wait wait if you want to mix
up like a chef all denied wins just go
for it okay I might I might just like
click enter and so like it's like like
there's more people so okay I'll just do
this one new if you transfer a WebSocket
start and I thought it would be good to
mention that now it's ready for program
you can use it in fact the next version
of Jessica TFS will have it installed by
default and then you can just activate
it with the multi other it should be as
simple as I'm doing any enabling any
other transport this web socket star is
very similar to web RTC star so you got
a rend of a point where you died out you
and then you use this friend of a point
for discovery so like any know that dial
set point will also get to know that mm
at some point so it's kind of like a
multicast DNS of the browser and the
difference between web RTC star and web
socket star is that web socket star uses
a web socket end point to relay the
messages while web RTC just chooses that
end points to relay the signaling data
that then what you establish a
peer-to-peer channel there are a couple
of reasons why this transport was built
like the major one is really because
what you see is very memory hungry
and it's really hard to control and
there are things that we know that we
can do but this was kind of like a short
thing like a quick thing that we could
build in order for people to have the
same experience that they have with a
weber ec star without having to wait
more weeks or even a couple months to
see a full round solution but now that
control the beasts that WebRTC
is in essence WebSocket star it's kind
of like circus relay it's very similar
like it's almost like a different color
of the same thing or the same
functionality but implemented a
different way because circuit rely
enables you to use any ipfs no to relay
your connection to another appear and
that you have to have the multi other of
that peer as a secret real-life multi
other we the WebSocket star you are
still relaying the connection but it is
a transport so like in the design of a
peer-to-peer the design was purposefully
made to support that I get transferred
or any other piece of the this stack can
be like a set of modules itself and so
realize that transport Ned knows how to
use swarm and stream muxing and second
you to create an order transport in case
of WebSocket Star is something more
low-level more simple that just uses a
WebSocket in points to route connections
I guess in practical terms where the
screen is like it's a transport that
doesn't do the crashing thing that
people have seen we have detected some
bugs on it today like it's not very
reliable on closing peer connections so
you can dial you can discover but if you
go off and on where a lot of times the
render who point gets a little bit
confused so it needs more tests there
and and yeah and I'll see you because I
saw a conversation on the IRC channel
about the fusion like this is the route
that you want to go we want to create
these wonderful points for our transfers
and the answer is no this is like a
short-term solution what we are going to
do next is react to texture the way that
module loading works on the peer-to-peer
so that we can have by this common
it's like common vertical in some repute
appeared that enables any piece to use
all the other pieces simply right now
it's not trivial trivial because of the
way that dependencies are required and
injective but like once that really
texture is there then a transport will
be very able to call something from
upper layer and and so that means that I
can set up in one single render point
then any node in the network can become
a renewable point for any other nodes to
meet again very much like circuit really
just different colors of the same thing
of the same product and then we'll
remove those central points which yes we
don't want them we don't need them it
just like a question on really texturing
things so that's it works slightly and
then if I still respect to them so on
yeah I hope this explanation was useful
maybe not everyone at the full context
of all the things you know feel free to
ask me questions now or later or ask me
for pointers yeah to be could you maybe
after we've discussed can you make sure
that update them notes to have things to
like what is WebSocket star and what is
what RTC star I'm good like where can
people read more about this and what and
also like related or requests or issues
in the pupae space alright we're ready
to proceed on to the next agenda item um
pick one it looks like ipfs parcel only
take two from Victor yeah this is just a
quick note I put the link in the in the
notes as well right after its plan to be
the the 16 of the summer he will be kind
of the same format hopefully the high
time will be a bit better but if you are
close point
Barcelona and you want to come that will
be very fun or if you want to
participate or help out remotely that
will be super nice as well
all right it looks like also above that
one uh this week JSI PFS 2.7 once
released and there's an issue for that
there
all right just a bit so the release is
ready finally we did everything if we
wanted to do and the notes on what is
coming we have to really czar on that
issue and now that we discover that
issues with WebSockets star we're going
to fix them but the release should be
published in today so Wednesday if you
are a user of just a TFS please do tests
this latest version and let us know if
it works for you if you find any problem
with your application with your tests
and it is always like very relative to
see other people run their test Suites
against the latest because just gives us
like so many like sometimes it's just a
level of like a degree of confidence
that we know okay like things are
working and it's great all the times
it's actually they find bugs and that's
also great because then we can fix them
before breaking people software and yeah
okay um off of that it looks like David
you don't mind continuing the the web UI
and station are getting lots of love
I'll do it
so this is kinda the edge and he's a new
contributor to the whole project he
started like weeks ago just like going
through issues and and submitting for
requests and over this time he managed
to get web UI to work again I took tests
on CI and to actually be buildable which
is something that didn't happen for
quite some time like we need to update
the web UI and go ipfs because like the
HTTP api of ipfs has been evolving just
a TFS api has been evolving but the web
UI always never really updated so it's
kind of like behind if you are using web
UI today you probably have some problems
so now the web UI it's already fixed
updated it builds we can get a new ash
or that app and like updates the - that
is article dodongo ipfs and so thats
users can use the web um the other thing
that's in the vacay also contributed and
aki is probably going to join us next
week with the demo i'm just like sharing
it bytes so yeah see station so station
works again and it's all updated so you
can now and I will also have links to
both of these things don't worry if you
are not finding it now but station is in
electron app and these Styles like a
menu bar item and it's a nightly fest
know that you can drag and drop files
and like then it copies to your
clipboard the ipfs at io / / of that
file so you can just share with friends
anyway light turned on and off your note
it's kind of like a nice way to install
an IP fest node without having to do
terminal command line things and in
second eye security and there are some
big ideas of like how that thing should
look like and how it should work and
which features you can have so if you
also have ideas go to those repos and
and he shows with ideas and and
hopefully in the next couple of weeks /
next quarter to actually get something
that we were the idea is to walk
- to go towards a scenario where we have
them the name might change but like the
ipfs dashboard which like a full page
like the web UI but like with more
features because ipfs has evolved a lot
since for you iOS design and then you
have the ipfs UI for like menu bars or
for Firefox and Chrome extensions so
like when you install the ipfs companion
you get like a tiny UI box when you saw
the electron happy you get a tiny eye
box and like if we can module eyes those
UI pages - web components then we can
reuse them across different integrations
to the electron to the desktop to the
browser one with EFS companion to a view
I which is a larger that's world and
also because there will be web
components we can enable and disable
them depending on the feature that the
user wants to use the features that's
the IP personalization as that they are
using with and also enabling the user to
say I want to use an m-pam which is a
defense or I want to use a remote node
with my PFS
so yeah there's a lot of like really
good ideas in terms of like getting
users into ipfs and I start playing with
it a lot of it will be around these
repos like FIFA's companion web UI and
station so stay tuned and also if you
are interested in reading just write a
note in the notes of this session or in
the ripples
alright it looks like we have the
critical issues for go ipfs and JSI PFS
so I threw that in there just just a
surface that we have these lists that
during this quarter sort of behind the
scenes bigger ipfs team and JSI PFS team
have been putting a lot of work into
addressing known critical issues and
there's nobody well Hector's the closest
thing to the NGO ipfs team today in
Dimitri I guess but um Jeremy's on a
plane and I think Kubas in a class right
now but we could at least look at the
NGO ipfs ones and just that some of them
have been addressed already so
connection closing which was a
long-standing challenge also swarm hot
pants optimized I'm not sure what that
one is we don't have Steve in here and
fixing some flood sub stuff so you can
check in with that list I would say next
well I won't be here next week but maybe
on next week's call some of the NGO
committers can look through this listing
give an update of how the progress is
going on those ones and then unless
anything jumps out at anyone about the
good stuff we could just look at the GS
ones okay to me do you want to give a
quick glance at the J's ones you've been
hammering through yeah absolutely
so I'll just share my screen again all
right so I used to alpha board to track
all of the shoes that we prioritized for
this quarter and by the way I don't know
what happened to zoom but the window
with everyone's face just disappeared so
I am with really no feedback if someone
raise your hand please tell me okay we
have here the waffle board it's already
filtered by piece you're critical and we
can see that there has been a lot of
progress we started with 51 issues on
the ready column and right now we are
17 left and five in progress the like a
lot of performance issues have been sold
in Jessica fest and like bugs that were
just annoying that were there the next
two really big items that still need to
get some attention are the IPL de track
so there was a lot of development or a
lot of improvements proposed by the end
of last quarter and like there has been
killed there was code created to fill
the needs that some users were reporting
but we never got the chance to actually
just push those changes through the
entire the entirety of the IPL D stack
so that's the work here you see support
my API and an IPL de resolvers like this
is a bug and then the IPL the resolver
changes also attached to this one one of
the issues it was critical for GSI PFS
is getting the back API supportive on
Jessup EFS API so the client that
typically people use with go ipfs this
work depends a lot of work that needs to
happen on go ipfs land and yeah we
essentially need to revisit this like
see if the design that we decided on and
like the way that we decided to approach
this are still valid and if there is
something that we can still do this
quarter so the other big piece is really
the DHT work so we in Jessica's land we
have a DHT implementation but it's not
interoperable with the girl yet although
it works in jest lands and yeah liking
it needs more debugging a lot of the
pieces are there but there is something
some message that is not passing and it
seems more like a we pretty pure problem
then necessarily and she has a PFS
problem but it detects al Jessup if s
works and the experience that users get
so for the remaining of the quarter
again just to
to emphasize it will be things around by
PL D and then DHT by that order
any change
yeah if there are any questions or like
what this is mean I'm sure like I will
get these issues and like I know what is
written on the whole trip so I'm seeing
it but like if you have a question on
this status of something you can trust
now and yeah go ahead funny so talking
to Steven right I think there is this
possibility of resolving IP LD using the
Gateway is that still a possibility or
is it going to be really through of the
API Daggett you mean by having a / IP OD
/ CID into the like just doing ipfs yeah
we definitely talked a lot about that or
at least in multiple occasions and like
no one is against it it is
it is more a question of would that be
useful today like what people actually
need at API and so far the answer has
been no and maybe you are going to tell
us that we are wrong because you have
some perhaps I use case for it the
reality is like most people that used a
gateway one to access files they are not
interested in like single nodes of graph
and like when people wants to operate
over graphs they really want an API like
something they can create a program and
a critic graph and perverse with and I
do filtering and selection and
transformations and so on so so if there
is a case to go into chair go for it
well not really so actually my IP id
specification the D ID spec on top of IP
FS I built it using IP LD now and so I
think so I'm mostly using the API which
is a little bit in flux right now so I
think it doesn't really matter I'm
building it on top of the API but I
think ultimately it's going to be for
other people to resolve for like the
sovereign foundation to be able to just
hit the game gateway to resolve the the
object and so I think mostly for
convenience for other users not myself
you see
okay so we I guess the entry really is
about resolving you can get the JSON
document but the JSON document has to be
serialized in Seaborg and you have to
validate the hash of the content I guess
is really the issue mm-hmm exactly
make sure it's deterministic it is
really hard to give like a standalone
HTTP interface so ike without any client
in the front for IPL be so we can
totally like show you data we can patch
a note and I give you a JSON version of
the data but as soon as it has like data
types that are offers or like different
kinds of numbers because the way that
Jason gets string defied and put in the
wire it's not like messes with that data
which means that like you might be
grabbing some piece of Jason from like
/ IPL d /c ad and any relative jason and
then you say lies it again and like do
this IV and it's not going to match the
same city if you were fetching initially
so this is kind of like a really hard
problem the the solution for this would
be just like creating maybe like instead
of you getting their raw nodes getting
you a visualizer so like when people
load something on / IPL d they actually
weld something I got a playground if you
have visited like that seaboard or il
playground or Jason lb playground you
like this box it tells you the data
that's inside and this analyze the
version so that if you grab a stylized
version then you can reproduce the same
content locally using pipe Affairs or
just a few pairs or in the future fire
papers and so on but yeah like I guess
we just need to understand what are the
needs and like what is the best thing
that we can put on that path to make it
useful for users okay cool yeah I think
we ought to start spinner as an issue I
think not high priority yeah but like if
there is any endpoint that you'd need in
order to get the IDS moving forward just
also yeah what I figured it up yeah so
mostly I've been able to do it right
through I was rectum writing it into
ipfs the library but actually realized
that just using the API is just fine I
guess there was the interface go
interface go I a P I and so I'm
basically building on top of that and so
key store and everything else works just
fine so I'm building it basically and
it's the D ID spec is is basically
modeling of JSON it's a pretty
straightforward as a food okay alright
it looks like next we have a pull
request on JSI PFS decontrol requesting
some feedback just where there has been
some
talks about having a consistent module
to start and stop ipfs notes and that's
basically a proposal for that and trying
to give some feedback because that is a
blocker for getting the required amount
of testing on on super really to get it
ready for primetime so that's kind of an
important piece of that as well so yeah
just some feedback on on the proposed
interface if there's something that you
know requires comments or criticism
leave it there but I am at this point
kind of trying to time box it for the
next 24 hours and you know there's no
protection step forward but I could both
but if there are let's let's make sure
we'll bring him up yeah that's
prevention all right right every time
yeah so um so me and Mitch we have been
talking about is essentially just to
give everyone a little bit more context
is ipfs D - CTL we call it the demon
controller and it is the module that
typically people use from json to spawn
go ipfs demons and because now there is
the need to also spawn J hyperfest
demons to do all these job testing we
kind of like figure out we better to
just create a module that it is more
flexible more versatile than creating a
different module and the demon
controller module it's kind of like all
the in terms of interface like it
doesn't support a lot of things and it's
also like not very well documented and
and so because we learn some of the UX
that developers expect by building what
we call the ipfs Factory it's the thing
that we have for testing on Jessica the
Sofia in Jessica verse we figured I'd
like okay let's just like bring all that
innovation back this module and make it
available for the entire community like
then we have a single place to spawn
nodes from electron from the browser
from Mike
single javascript file etc and dozen
demons can be just rivers can be a girl
or in the future
any other implementation so the question
in the house here is if you use it to
spawn demons for your code and like I
know other applications you should
definitely make sure to check that full
request because it has a new proposal
for its API which should be simpler it
should be nicer should be more
debuggable and if there is something
that like you created on top of the old
API that you see that we are missing and
you think will be better to also add
definitely bring it up or if you see
that we are removing something which
should not be the case but if we see
that we are removing something that will
break your usage of it also let us know
and that's that's convention otherwise
like again we have the PR open it will
get a little bit like some days to get
developed so you still have some time
and if we have to add something in the
future we can always add more it's fine
yep absolutely thanks Eddie no problem
thank you for pushing any all right if
we were ready to move on then looks like
we have a demo on the current state of
Jenkins from Victor yes hello
so everyone can can hear me good yeah
perfect
okay I am gonna share my browser which
happens to be Firefox it's always been
Firefox I'm not a traitor
so let's see we have this long-running
now everything is right here but don't
worry it's my favorite so this is how
Jenkins looks right now the is called
goo ocean and he has like a new UI and
things so what I my my biggest focus
this quarter I have been working on
Jenkins and trying to make our CI as
good as possible also involves making
sure Travis and sonken CI and a player
works well as well so the the current
state is that we now have we now have a
repository but I am under here where we
keep shared shared pipelines for all
JavaScript jobs so far so what it does
basically we have a couple of node.js
versions so what's wrong we have the OSS
we want to test some other Global's for
the don't version and then we have
specific tests for Windows as we know
it's a bit special and then we have the
sets poor or UNIX compatible machine and
I basically we run through all of those
in parallel so how this would look no
actual job it would look something like
this so this is speedy stream of
Maksimir for example we can see that it
took 35 minutes last four numbers which
is kinda like too long time so I'm gonna
go over to one of the gory paper skills
and so on
we can
see the : pipeline this looks like this
it's a bit it's worse because I just
hacked it together yesterday basically
but the same principle we have a bunch
of Oso going on in Russia and we run
through installing DX here so checking
out the code installing dependencies
rewriting your done testing and then how
this would look this is for example core
IP for others it's a lot faster it takes
like two minutes so we can hopefully the
demo gods are on my side you can replay
those and we should see it testing on
all the OSS in the same time so we don't
have to wait
so the Linux version completed in 30
seconds
Rula one sex question it's slower and so
is the Windows version as well so how
this would actually affect you on github
we can look up any time so we have Co
ipfs address which is the first one oi I
started with I didn't create a pull
request here but we have a branch and
here we can see the the status typical
github status jumbo right now this
library only has one once here
many projects have had multiple ones so
a better example would be maybe one of
the multi formats one so the the current
state is all the JavaScript projects in
multiplayer and IP on the year I think
has been done already and it's using
using Jenkins so for our JavaScript
project you have the up layer the circle
and Travis file and then we also put the
Jenkins file in the CI folder and then
you just call this this function and
your works so let's see
playing the pool request online nice so
now every time
making progress you get four different
services I know I cannot see the old
tons oh yeah
so here we have circus er admire Jenkins
and Travis for only JavaScript project
and I'm poor goal
I think it's Travis Circle and now I'm
adding Jenkins that's one so here is a
go flood sub which I just added now as
well just using Travis and thank you and
yeah that's pretty much it
the workers are one on Amazon and in
private Mac OS cloud as well so the AWS
workers we can spin up whenever we want
when we need more and we need more
workers and then the Mac workers require
a bit more work spin up so currently we
have one one Linux worker we have two
windows and two michaelis because Elena
to worker is so much faster than the
other one so we only need one this point
and yeah so now the next step is to just
add this taken file in basically every
single record that we have and then
after that we can hopefully turn off the
other NCOA services and everything will
run much faster and that's why that's my
update and we'll have any any questions
so you'll be done like tomorrow because
there's not that many well actually it
would just take like 10 minutes or
something like though I think I only
have 300 records left but I actually
wrote a tool at least for the Jas
project to sync the files automatically
I still have to manually check
everything is passing and I found some
minor bugs in the pipeline as well -
it's pink on the go projects I am not
sure who this is
yeah this is really cool like I've
wasted so many hours waiting for colors
because you can always like try to do
something else but then you have also
have to check in with province if it has
finished or not
yeah then you have to retry and I forgot
now we're planning to turn off Travis in
circle once we've got Jenkins running so
those wanting it run yep that's the plan
and that we can the planets also to add
more architectures like arm to add
different workers that are faster or
slower we can have different network
conditions as well we have we have a lot
more possibilities of setting up such as
to run in the exact environment that we
want to rather than some hosted thing
where they decide how we should run
orders
one quick question when or is it part of
the plan for this quarter to get the GSI
BFS API tests running against white
papers all the time so that when there
is a change in grab a plastic I've even
steam knows
the GFI papist API I thought correct
yeah so there was at one time that there
was like a Mac OS machine running we
teamcity yeah who is using yes I
diversity I tests to test with the go
ipfs like the master but that that went
away and so since that went away we
already found a bunch of problems like
type offense just changed a couple of
things and then we had to catch up
yeah and yeah is that coming back soon
yeah sure I focused firstly on writing a
generic python for the standard the
standard jobs the one story similar that
can have the most impact in the shortest
amount of time but now I can focus on
having the custom pipelines as well
which go ipfs also needs for itself
probably needs a custom Python not on
generic on and then it will be easier to
add the JSI PFS api
dependency well the other way around the
co ipfs build as a dependency for this
idea first api and then one the first so
yes short and sweet
all right well then that looks like
we're at the end of the agenda um yeah
and this concludes the All Hands meeting
for November 27 2017